CIS*4800 – Computer Graphics
Course Outline – Winter 2022
Instructor: David Calvert
Office : Reynolds Building, Room 2201
email: dcalvert@uoguelph.ca
Timetable
Lecture: Tuesday, Thursday, 11:30-1:00, ANNU 156.
Course Web Page:
http://courselink.uoguelph.ca

Marking Scheme
1. Programming Assignments: 80%
2. Midterm Examination: 20%
Notes:
• All assignments will be posted on the Courselink page.
• Assignment details will be discussed in class. It is your responsibility to learn and understand
these details.
• Assignments will be developed using WebGL, three.js, and the Python HTTP server. They
will be tested using the chrome browser. It is your responsibility to develop and test your
programs using this platform. If the assignment code does not run correctly on this platform
then you will lose marks on the assignment.
• There is no group work in the course. It is academic misconduct to collaborate on assignments
or represent other student’s work as your own. There are penalties for doing this. All
submitted code will be electronically checked for cheating. All parties to cheating will be
reported to the Director of the School of Computer Science as participants in academic
misconduct. See Academic Misconduct in Section VIII of the Undergraduate Calendar.
• Code which is submitted and does not execute will be given a mark of zero.
• Failure to submit assignments correctly will result in a substantial loss of marks. Assignments
will be submitted through the Courselink site.

Lecture Topics
1. Geometry and matrix algebra for computer graphics
2. Geometric modelling

3. Visible surface detection
4. Curves and surfaces
5. Rendering and illumination models
6. Vertex and Pixel shaders

Semester Schedule
• Assignment 1 due Friday, Jan. 26
• Assignment 2 due Friday, Feb. 9
• Midterm – Monday, Feb. 12 in class
• Assignment 3 due Friday, Mar. 8
• Assignment 4 due Friday, Mar. 22

Calendar Description
This course is an introduction to computer graphics. Topics include graphics programming concepts, geometrical transformations, viewing 3-D projections, raster graphics, sculptured surfaces,
visible surface determination, image processing and other special topics. Practical issues will be
covered by assignment using currently available graphics equipment.
Prerequisite(s): (CIS*3750 or CIS*3760), CIS*3110

E-mail Communication
As per university regulations, all students are required to check their ¡mail.uoguelph.ca¿ e-mail
account regularly: e-mail is the official route of communication between the University and its
students.

When You Cannot Meet a Course Requirement
When you find yourself unable to meet an in-course requirement because of illness or compassionate
reasons, please advise the course instructor (or designated person, such as a teaching assistant) in
writing, with your name, id number, and e-mail contact. See the undergraduate calendar for
information on regulations and procedures for Academic Consideration.

Drop Date
Students will have until the last day of classes to drop courses without academic penalty. The regulations and procedures for course registration are available in their respective Academic Calendars.

Copies of out-of-class assignments
Keep paper and/or other reliable back-up copies of all out-of-class assignments: you may be asked
to resubmit work at any time.

Accessibility
The University promotes the full participation of students who experience disabilities in their academic programs. To that end, the provision of academic accommodation is a shared responsibility
between the University and the student.
When accommodations are needed, the student is required to first register with Student Accessibility Services (SAS). Documentation to substantiate the existence of a disability is required,
however, interim accommodations may be possible while that process is underway.
Accommodations are available for both permanent and temporary disabilities. It should be
noted that common illnesses such as a cold or the flu do not constitute a disability.
Use of the SAS Exam Centre requires students to book their exams at least 7 days in advance.
More information: www.uoguelph.ca/sas

Academic Misconduct
The University of Guelph is committed to upholding the highest standards of academic integrity
and it is the responsibility of all members of the University community – faculty, staff, and students
– to be aware of what constitutes academic misconduct and to do as much as possible to prevent
academic offences from occurring. University of Guelph students have the responsibility of abiding
by the University’s policy on academic misconduct regardless of their location of study; faculty, staff
and students have the responsibility of supporting an environment that discourages misconduct.
Students need to remain aware that instructors have access to and the right to use electronic and
other means of detection.
Please note: Whether or not a student intended to commit academic misconduct is not relevant
for a finding of guilt. Hurried or careless submission of assignments does not excuse students from
responsibility for verifying the academic integrity of their work before submitting it.
Students who are in any doubt as to whether an action on their part could be construed as an
academic offence should consult with a faculty member or faculty advisor.
The Academic Misconduct Policy is detailed in the Undergraduate Calendar.

Recording of Materials
Presentations which are made in relation to course work—including lectures cannot be recorded or
copied without the permission of the presenter, whether the instructor, a classmate or guest lecturer.
Material recorded with permission is restricted to use for that course unless further permission is
granted.

Resources
The Academic Calendars are the source of information about the University of Guelph’s procedures,
policies and regulations which apply to undergraduate, graduate and diploma programs.
